Darklight Protocol v0

(c) Corbin Simpson, 2008

This document is available under the terms of the GPL v2, see the 
attached LICENSE file for details.

In this document, "Darklight" may be abbreviated "DL."

 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
{                        THE BASICS                       }
 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'

Darklight is a layer seven protocol, although it is intended to subsume 
layers seven through five cleanly and seamlessly. Its design is modeled 
loosely on some of the modern-day brightnet tools used for 
communication, most notably HTTP/SSL, Direct Connect, and Bittorrent, 
although out of all of those, only HTTP bears any resemblance to the 
actual wire protocol of Darklight.

Darklight's purpose is to provide a cryptographically impenetrable 
system for transferring files of indeterminate size and contents. To 
this end, the protocol has been designed to be secure while also being 
somewhat distributable and hideable.

 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
{                   ON-THE-WIRE COMMANDS                  }
 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'

<> are required parameters, [] are optional. All commands and parameters 
are space-delimited except where otherwise noted, and terminate with a 
carriage return and line feed (\r\n).

API <protocol version>

 ~ This reply contains the protocol version to which the server should
conform.

BAI

 ~ This reply indicates that the connection is safe to close, and that
the server will no longer listen on this connection.

CANHAZ <hash>

 ~ This command requests FILE entries from the server. The server will
return NOHAZ if no entries exist.

CHECKAPI

 ~ This command allows a client to retrieve the version of the
on-the-wire protocol that the server uses.

FAIL

 ~ This reply indicates an internal server error while handling the
client's request. The server is permitted to terminate the connection
with no further warning.

FILE <hash> <size>

 ~ This reply is an essential file entry. It contains the <hash> of the
file, and the file's <size> in bytes.

HAI [challenge]

 ~ This command authenticates a client with a server. [challenge] should 
be a hash of the client's password, decided as follows:
        Let W(plaintext, iterations) be the Whirlpool hash function. The 
        hash is defined as:
            hash = W(password, day of the month UTC)

K <count>

 ~ This reply indicates that the server is about to respond with <count>
bytes of data, terminated with a full newline. The data sent depends on
the previous request.

KTHNX

 ~ This reply ends a multiline reply from the server and/or notifies the
client that it is finished processing the command.

KTHNXBAI

 ~ This command is sent by a client to notify the server that it intends
to close the connection. Clients should wait for the server to respond,
but they are allowed to terminate the connection after sending this.

LOLWUT

 ~ This response indicates that the server does not understand the
previous command. The server may close the connection.

NOHAZ [hash]

 ~ This reply indicates that the server does not have any entries for
the previous request, or optionally for [hash] if present.

OHAI

 ~ This reply is sent by the server to notify the client that authentication
was successful.

SENDPEZE <hash> <piece>

 ~ This command requests the <piece> from the file identified by <hash>.

VERSION

 ~ This command prompts the server to respond with an unformatted reply.

